update dev agent for preview (#9115)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/developer-agent.md

Reviewer: This is now called `Start new Copilot chat`, might have to be updated

Reviewer: Fixed here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/9115/changes/aad53ace228ec6d6c935dceacb564bca9bcdfdcb

import DevAgent from '/snippets/_developer-agent-studio-setup.md';

# Developer agent <Lifecycle status="preview,self_service,managed,managed_plus"/>

<IntroText>

> The <Constant name="dev_agent" /> is the next evolution of <Constant name="copilot" /> in the <Constant name="studio_ide" />. Describe what you need in natural language to build, refactor, test, and document your project, grounded in lineage, metadata, governance, and the <Constant name="semantic_layer" /> &mdash; with every change auditable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Constant name="dev_agent" /> is the next evolution of <Constant name="copilot" /> in the <Constant name="studio_ide" />. Describe what you need in natural language to build, refactor, test, and document your project &mdash; grounded in lineage, metadata, governance, and the <Constant name="semantic_layer" />, with every change auditable.
```

</IntroText>

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info 
The <Constant name="dev_agent" /> is in preview as of May 6, 2026 for Starter and Enterprise plans. Enterprise plan customers can contact your account manager for changes. Starter plan customers can contact [dbt Labs Support](mailto:support@getdbt.com).
:::  
```

The <Constant name="dev_agent" /> is designed to support the full dbt development lifecycle &mdash; from initial model creation to testing, documentation, and semantic layer definition. Some examples of what you can do:

> - Build or change models from natural-language prompts about the logic you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build or change models using natural-language prompts about the logic you want.
```

- Generate and validate YAML for tests, documentation, and semantic models from existing models, with less manual boilerplate.
- Make scoped edits (renames, materializations, logic, stricter tests, and so on) while keeping related YAML in sync.

> - Explore the <Term id="dag" />, query the <Constant name="catalog"/>, and use lineage and metadata to steer your work.

Reviewer: Suggest to be more specific
```suggestion
- Explore the <Term id="dag" />, query the <Constant name="catalog"/>, and use lineage and metadata to guide your development. 
```

#### Availability and considerations

- **Where it runs:** Supported in the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/platform/studio-ide/develop-in-studio) only, all [deployment types](/docs/platform/about-platform/tenancy?version=2.0). Not supported in VS Code or the <Constant name="platform_cli" />.
- **Engines:** Works with <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> and <Constant name="core" />.

> - **Conversations:** In the conversation list, open the menu (three dots) → **Delete** to remove one thread; deleting the open thread clears the panel.

Reviewer: I couldn't find the three dots menu right away, suggest we add more detail
```suggestion
- **Conversations:** In the conversation list, open **More actions** menu (three dots) of the conversation you want to delete, then click **Delete** to remove one thread. Deleting the open thread clears the panel.
```

> - **Sessions:** Refreshing the same browser tab keeps your active session. A new tab, or returning after you closed the tab, starts empty. On single-tenant deployments, chat history isn't supported yet so save anything important yourself.

Reviewer: What do you think about separating these so the single-tenant detail is easier to scan

```suggestion
- **Sessions:** Refreshing the same browser tab keeps your active session. A new tab, or returning after closing the tab, starts empty. 
- **Chat history:** On single-tenant deployments, chat history isn't supported yet &mdash; save anything important before closing.
```

> - **Plan mode:** Not supported yet. The agent doesn't show a separate plan before applying changes, however you can use **Ask for approval** to approve each file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Plan mode:** Not supported yet. The agent doesn't show a separate plan before applying changes, however you can use the **Ask for approval** mode to approve each file.
```

> - **Prompts:** Although you can't edit a prompt after you send it, you can click **Start over** (top right of the Copilot panel) to reset and send a new prompt.

Reviewer: The button now says `Start new Copilot chat`:

<img width="200" height="103" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6641e455-1888-45b5-a2dd-c5f4cdca9b62" />

Clicking this button doesn't reset -- should this line be updated?

Reviewer: Fixed in this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/9115/changes/aad53ace228ec6d6c935dceacb564bca9bcdfdcb

<span style={{display: 'block', textAlign: 'center', fontSize: '0.9em', color: 'var(--ifm-color-emphasis-600)', marginTop: '8px'}}>Example of using the Developer agent to refactor a model in the Studio IDE.</span>
</div>

> For more details on the <Constant name="dev_agent" /> and how it works, click the following sections to open additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on the <Constant name="dev_agent" /> and how it works, expand the following sections to open additional information.
```

</SimpleTable>

</Expandable>

> ## Bringing your own skills

Reviewer: Love this section!

A skill is a reusable set of instructions that the agent can load to perform a specific workflow, such as applying your team's SQL patterns, modeling standards, or domain-specific logic. Skills help the <Constant name="dev_agent" /> produce more consistent results, reduce repeated prompt writing, and match the agent's generated changes with your team's conventions.

To add custom skills to your project:

1. In <Constant name="studio_ide" />, create a skill file at `skills/SKILL_NAME/SKILL.md` in your project.
2. Add clear instructions in `SKILL.md` for what the skill should do and when to use it.
3. Optionally add supporting sub-files under the same skill folder (for example, `skills/SKILL_NAME/references/example.md`) that the agent can read when needed.
4. Start a new agent session after adding or changing skills so the agent can pick up the updates.

If a custom skill and a built-in skill use the same name, the custom skill takes precedence.

> Custom skills use the same [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io/specification) format as [dbt Agent Skills](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-agent-skills) on GitHub. A typical `SKILL.md` includes:

Reviewer: I think we can move lines 140-144 under Step 2 since they provide details on what to include in SKILLS.md

Reviewer: Moved in this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/9115/commits/9e9619d185f81dd6b7e036f490628ec5a39cc5cd

```text
skills/
  my-team-style/
    SKILL.md
    references/
      naming-conventions.md
```

#### Example skill file

If you're new to skills, start with a small `SKILL.md` like the following, then grow it over time. Let's pretend Santi Corp is a plasticine manufacturer and their data practitioners want to apply their modeling conventions to all models in the project.

```markdown
---
name: my-team-style
description: Apply Santi Corp's modeling conventions when editing or creating dbt models. Use when the user asks for refactors, new models, or YAML in this project.
---

# My team style

## When to use

Use this skill whenever you are changing SQL or YAML under `models/` and the user did not override these rules.

## Conventions

- Staging models use prefix `stg_` and live in `models/staging/`.
- Facts and dimensions use `fct_` and `dim_` prefixes respectively.
- Document new columns in the same PR as the model change.

## Optional detail

For edge cases, read `references/naming-conventions.md` in this skill folder before proposing renames.
```

#### Running a custom skill

To use a custom skill in the <Constant name="dev_agent" />:

> - Prompt the agent with the task and reference the skill by name (for example, "Use `my-team-style` to refactor this model and update related YAML").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prompt the agent with the task and reference the skill by name (for example, "Use `my-team-style` to refactor this model and update related YAML").
```

> - If needed, use `@` mentions to point to the skill file or supporting `.md` files directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If needed, use `@` mentions to point to the skill file or supporting `.md` files directly.
```

> - Review and approve the proposed changes as usual in the Copilot panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 3. Review and approve the proposed changes as usual in the <Constant name="copilot" /> panel.
```
